Add Getting Started section (#449)
gardener/documentation: website/documentation/getting-started/features/certificate-management.md

---
title: Certificate Management
weight: 5
---

## Certificate Management

> For proper consumption, any service should present a TLS certificate to its consumers. However, self-signed certificates are not fit for this purpose - the certificate should be signed by a CA trusted by an application's user base. Luckily, Let's Encrypt helps here by offering a signing service that issues certificates based on the ACME challenge (Automatic Certificate Management Environment). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For proper consumption, any service should present a TLS certificate to its consumers. However, self-signed certificates are not fit for this purpose - the certificate should be signed by a CA trusted by an application's user base. Luckily, Issuers like Let's Encrypt and others help here by offering a signing service that issues certificates based on the ACME challenge (Automatic Certificate Management Environment). 
```

There are plenty of tools you can use to perform the challenge. For Kubernetes, cert-manager certainly is the most common, however its configuration is rather cumbersome and error prone. So let's see how a Gardener extension can help here.

## Manage Certificates with Gardener

![](./images/manage-certificates.png)

> A user may annotate a Service or Ingress to trigger the cert-manager to request a Let's Encrypt certificate and perform the challenge. With the DNS extension discussed previously, setting up the DNS TXT record for the ACME challenge is fairly easy. The requested certificate can be customized by the means of several other annotations known to the controller. Most notably, it is possible to specify SANs via `cert.gardener.cloud/dnsnames` to accommodate domain names that have more than 64 characters (the limit for the CN field).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user may annotate a Service or Ingress to trigger the cert-manager to request a certificate from the any configured issuer (e.g. Let's Encrypt) and perform the challenge. A Gardener operator can add a default issuer for convenience.
With the DNS extension discussed previously, setting up the DNS TXT record for the ACME challenge is fairly easy. The requested certificate can be customized by the means of several other annotations known to the controller. Most notably, it is possible to specify SANs via `cert.gardener.cloud/dnsnames` to accommodate domain names that have more than 64 characters (the limit for the CN field).
```
